Welcome, everyone.
Hopefully you all are here for
intermediate view with Frontend Masters.
My name is Ben Hong.
I'm on the Vue core team and I actually
recently joined the Angular team as well.
So I do a lot of things for
the web and open source and so
primarily I get to do a lot of docs work
and then basically just helping to make
the web technology more accessible
to everyone out there, so
that everyone can keep building
awesome things on the web.
As far as prerequisites for this course,
basically we expect that you've taken
some sort of Vue 3 Fundamentals.
So if you haven't, if this is
your kind of first foray into it,
we have a Vue 3 Fundamentals
workshop that I've taught before.
So I also expect that you have a basic
understanding of Composition API.
This workshop really is about
diving more in depth into it and
what we can do with it as a result.
Also, we'll be doing a lot with script
setup, so if you're new to that,
don't worry about it.
It's basically just all Composition API,
as opposed to some options,
some Composition API.
Essentially all it is.
Once we dive into it,
you'll get right into it.
And then I say this with the utmost in
quotes, basic understanding of TypeScript,
in the sense that there is TypeScript
in the code that you'll see.
But we're not doing heavy type creation or
anything, it's just there to help with
some of the auto completion type
inferences, that kind of thing.
Fear not,
if you see the typescript in there,
that's not what this course is focused on.
So as far as setup goes.
For those in the chat and those here,
hopefully you've had a chance to check
out the repo on github.com, so it's under
github.com/bencodezen/intermediate-view.-
git.
And if you go ahead and clone that down,
basically that's where we'll
be doing all our exercises.
So as you see the main branch right there,
you can go ahead and
basically NPM install and that should
basically get you up and running.
And then basically going forward, I'll be
checking out branches as we go through.
So you have different stopping points and
checkpoints for
you to kinda check back and
go over different things.
As far as the things we're gonna cover,
we're gonna focus on four
primary topics today.
And so we'll start off with components and
then we'll be looking at composables and
really diving deep into that.
Because I think this is where a lot of
the Vue ecosystem is currently kind of
moving towards.
So I wanna get everyone
very familiar with that.
And then we'll have a section later on on
routing, as well as some of the sort of
upcoming movements as far as where that's
going from enterprise perspective.
And as well as kind of taking a deeper
dive into state management, where it's at,
especially in a composition kind of world.
Where are we with that and what do we
recommend as far as working with it?
Okay, so the question is,
what are we building?
Well, we're gonna be building a todo app,
just kidding.
This is not an intro class.
We've all been bored by the todo app and
done it way too many times.
And so this is an intermediate course,
which means we're gonna be dropping you
into, well,
essentially a legacy code base.
So just to give you a little
bit of a tour of what you have.
So we have essentially,
as far as the structure goes,
we have our frontend app
inside of the app folder.
So this is your standard Vue
3 scaffolded with Vue 3 app.
And then there's a backend in quotes I
put, because it's really just a JSON file.
And we're leveraging a library,
if you haven't heard of before,
called json-server, and it basically fakes
an API rest point for a JSON file locally.
So that's really all it is, nothing fancy.
So nothing's being sent to the cloud,
everything's just being done locally.
So let's go ahead and
take a look at the enterprise app that
you all are gonna be walking into.
And so it's called Point of Vue and it's
your own personal productivity dashboard.
And so overall, you can see here,
this is like, we got our homepage.
And then you can choose your
focus in terms of the things that
you're intending to do.
And we have, basically you see your
tasks here, you can filter it down,
we can even look at the planner as far
as what's been planned for what week.
You can switch the different weeks,
look at it in detail.
It gives you some metrics on
things that you've planned,
what you've actually spent time on.
And there's even a reflection page to
kinda see how has your completion rate
been along with your time efficiency.
And overall it looks pretty good, but
I'm not gonna lie, it's pretty buggy.
Some of the features are missing
that you would expect to be there.
And AI may or may not have been
involved in coding some of the tickets.
So inside you'll see some of these
coding practices don't look quite right.
And so in some ways it's kind of
your modern day enterprise app.
So as far as this goes, basically the key
thing I wanna emphasize here is that
you're walking into a code base that
is already there's opportunities for
improvement, lots of it.
So do not take what you see in
there as gospel as, that pattern,
I should copy that.
We're not at that point.
So just to reiterate,
so what you're working on is you've
inherited a legacy code base.
And while it does work as far
as some of the major features,
it is far from perfect and
we're here to kind of improve it.
So this is a quote when I was
talking with David at his talk.
And I love this because it says
LLMs weren't trained on good code,
they were trained on your code.
And I thought that was a great quote
because a lot of times, as we know,
we live in a world where we have AI
generated code and it's being injected in.
But as we all keep playing around,
you'll notice that sometimes it just
does things that does not make sense.
Like for example, I think at one point it
was trying to inject router functions so
that it could add a button
to navigate to another page.
And that is just a big no, no, right?
It's a button element.
We have anchored tags for a reason.
But for Some reason the LLMs have learned
that, a lot of people do this, so
I'm gonna do this too.
And so it's an interesting
state that we're in right now.
But so as a result, I just thought this
was kind of a funny quote by David.
So as far as participation tips for
this workshop, first off,
don't be afraid to deep dive in the code.
Again, this workshop is about getting
hands-on experience with the techniques
and the patterns that we're talking about.
So the best way to get experience with
that is obviously to go in there,
try stuff out.
And so I have dedicated exercises for
different things we'll be
trying to solve together.
But I left a lot of different things
to explore so that you can go and
try out different things and
basically enhance the code as you see fit.